# DevOps ICU

### UX Training led by Debbie Levitt - Monday May 13 - 14, 2019

DevOps highlights the following results that are attained when aligned correctly and driven by goals:

* Product quality
* Shorter time to market
* Improved productivity & efficiency
* Increased ability to build the right product
* Improved customer satisfaction

Correctly implementing UX into the process, one would see steps as so:

* Client/Product tells UX what they want for the vision
* UX cycles through UCD tasks. UX iterates
* UX tests it to ensure it's a great solution
* Client/internal stakeholders and users like it
* UX delivers it to you, ready to build. Once

I wonder at this point about the process and implementation. How does this take on an agile/lean approach? From where I am standing at this point in time, I see this going in a waterfall direction. Unless there is engineering part of the first phase along with the UX, it is simply a process of UX doing what they need, engineering waiting, and then UX passing off once they have done what they need.

On the basis of whether or not a product/project needs UX? I have to say that it depends… that is what we always say :-) Seriously though, what if the project simply states to use Bootstrap for everything. Does that make it where UX gets shafted? Are engineers good enough to make the right decisions on what the end user is needing? I know there are those out there that will say that they have done enough development work to know what users are used to when dealing with certain scenarios using some form of a web application. How the user expects to interact with forms. How to handle error messages. Where the navigation menu should go. Just add a hero slot with rotating photos. That is pretty much it is it not? Seems like I am rambling on, so let me get to the point of what I say to this. ALWAYS. UX has to be a process. And when I say a process, I say that it has to be a thought process just like figuring out logic for a function that is going to determine how to show certain parts of the form. It can't be something that is thrown together to complement the behavior of the application. Doing so is nothing more than saying that it does not matter what the user wants or how the user would best get the job done they are intent on doing. Rather, the user must follow the directions of how the development team saw it best in their mind, even though the minds of the developers are clouded by seeing the same looking applications year after year since HTML5 boilerplate was introduced years ago. This leads to the one word that is often overlooked by many of us who are on this side of the application … empathy.

Empathy is a powerful word that has a great deal of weight behind it. It also is a word that can be used very loosely depending on the context it is being used. What is the context of empathy when it comes to building a web application? The user!! Yes that is all it comes down to. Forgive me if I am leaving out having empathy for fellow employees that you are working with, but this in the context of the user experience. Not taking the time to ask the people that will be making use of the application that is being built is putting the application in failure mode right off the bat. It is of no use to create an application that has no use for anyone. I guess that is kind of like building a bank and putting the drive thru lanes in the opposite direction, figuring that people would just have to get used to driving in different than how they are used to. The one concept that strikes me when it comes to empathy for the user is how to get the job done. What job you ask? The application has been developed in order for people to accomplish tasks. Just like applications that you find in your kitchen. They each serve a purpose. They are not there just to make the kitchen complete. They are there to serve a purpose depending on what you are doing in the kitchen. The same goes for a web application. It has a purpose - maybe more than one - and it should be to allow the person to accomplish a task as easy as possible. That is where empathy becomes the driving force behind the user experience. Knowing that a person would not want to take on 4 tasks when it could only take 1 if done right, having empathy towards this fact allows for consideration of what experience will be the best one to handle this situation. And not only this situation. There could be multiple objectives that the given application can have for a person. There could be more types of people that have the same objectives, yet meet them in different ways. Taking the person in consideration removes them from the category of being a robot. 

Now that we have decided it is important to take into consideration the user experience, how do we define the user experience? To me, that is not a hard question to answer. It is making it where a person can do something and it is enjoyable, easy, and able to be done. I remember years ago when a person would have to get off an exit from a major highway and take 3-4 turns to get a bite to eat. I think that it is easy to see now that companies invested a good amount of time and money to figure out that this was not a good experience for a person. So what did they do? All fast food and gas stations bought property right off of the highway. Now, someone can easily see a restaurant ahead, know that all they had to do was get off the exit, and boom, they are filling their tummy and their gas tank. Quick and easy. That is how people want it these days. Long gone are the days where people would be patient for something. Now, if there is not instant gratification, you can be sure that you won't get the person. And when I say person, I must refrain from aliasing a robot as a person. There are so many different types of people. As a matter of fact, God did not create no two people the same. Try to come up with scenarios for that one. Seriously though, I can sit in front of the computer and think about how I envision a person using the application, and completely forget that I have 2 hands with 5 fingers on each hand. Or that I have good vision - or vision at all. I had a brother-in-law, who passed away from ALS, who needed to use Dragon software in order to use the computer. It was amazing how he had to set it up to use the web browser in order to select different coordinates on the screen, tell Dragon what cooridor to go to, and then click. That was the easiest of what we had to do. That was the defining moment in me having empathy for someone other than myself when it came to using a web based application. If all types of people and disabilities are not factored into the making of an application, there is a good chance that you will not like to see the percentage of people that are not able to use the application in any form. That makes it useless. Tough word, but for those people that were not considered when designing the user experience, that is exactly what it is.

We did a fair amount of critiques on different web sites, but I am going to skip over that part. That can be for you to do on your own and come to your conclusions as to how they rate on your scale of usability. 

Wireframes and prototypes. Those are all UX/UI involve. That is what I thought. I think now that I was taught a lesson today. You can see that I already have written a good amount and have not even touched on these yet. And to be honest with you, there is a good amount of content that I have left out simply for the fact that the rest of my notes are upstairs and I am lazy to get up and go get them right now. So why is it that I thought UX/UI was nothing but wireframes and prototypes? Because I love them. See, I am biased. Make sure you do not hire me for your next UX/UI position. What I love most about wireframes is the ability to take a blank canvas and make something special out of it. It is art. Not the fancy art that you would come to expect with brushes and paint. No, it is a new type of art that allows a creative person to bring to life a place where someone will be able to do something. It reminds me of creating a playground in real world for a kid. You sit with a kid and ask them what they would want in a playground and you will get the most vivid and creative picture, so much so that you probably would not have to create it. That is how I see wireframes. I think of all of the things that someone would want in an application. Everything. Anything. All things. If it can bring happiness to a person, the wireframe that I create has it. Of course by the time it gets in the hands of those who make the financial decisions, it gets tailored down to reality. But, for a period of time before that, I get to create a world where people are happy. That world is the application that I see people wanting to be using every single waking moment of the day. It is not up to me as to what ends up making it into the final high resolution wireframe. That is up to the higher ups, and they are the ones that have to break the hearts of the people who I built this world for. Well not really. Anyways, that is what is so great about wireframes. As for prototypes, I am not as fond of them as I am wireframes. When it comes to prototypes, I get jumpy and go straight to the browser to prototype. I setup the app so that any changes I make it Chrome developer tools will persist over to the code base. When I make changes, I can save straight from the developer tools and then the page will refresh with the changes still in place. I know there are great tools out there for prototyping, I just find myself getting jumpy and skipping straight to the browser.

There is more that I can write about but will hold off on doing so until I can get myself upstairs to look over the other notes that I have. Notes that include things like the four horsemen, testing, and more. Depending on when you might be reading this, I am sure I will have even more to write because there is still a half day we have left of the workshop. It has been very enlightening to see just how much I don't know. I am always amazed at how that seems to happen to me every day. I will write more of my thoughts from my notes in the next couple of days. 

Debbie was a great teacher today. I enjoyed being able to interact with her and to get a clear picture of all the topics she covered. 